(light music)
- [Narrator] In this section
you will learn to verify your budget,
distinguish between spending and financial authorities
and procurement authorities,
and confirm who has approval authority
through financial delegation charts.
This section should take you
approximately 20 minutes to complete.
(light music)
Before beginning your procurement process,
you must check
that there are sufficient funds in your budget
to cover the costs of the goods,
the services, and the construction that you are planning.
If you don't have enough funds,
you may have to turn to other sources to find the money,
such as transfer funds within your own budgets,
get extra money from other managers,
use an untapped surplus your director might have,
prepare a Treasury Board submission
or a Memorandum to Cabinet,
and, depending on your business,
tap into an interdepartmental settlement.
The following exercise will help you determine
if you have enough funds in your budget.
(light music)
Now that you know if you have enough money in your budget,
let's check to see if you have the proper authority
to begin buying the resources that you need.
Did you know that Parliament created two authority streams?
It created one for financial authorities
and another for procurement authorities.
To exercise your financial authority,
you need to successfully complete this course,
submit your signed delegation card to your finance unit,
and receive your formal delegation of authority in writing
from your finance unit.
Managers typically have two delegated authorities:
Section 32 for commitment authority
and Section 34 for certification authority.
Section 32 would allow you to order office supplies,
while Section 34 would allow you to sign off
on having received the supplies.
For more information on Sections 32 and 34,
see the toolbox.
Then, Section 33 allows the finance unit
to pay for the supplies.
In certain situations,
for example, temporary help services,
you will need to go through a procurement process
because it involves a contract.
These situations are governed by Section 41
of the Financial Administration Act
and would typically be managed
by the procurement section in your organization.
As for procurement authorities,
they are divided into two streams,
one for goods and the other for services.
Under the Department of Public Works
and Government Services Act,
the Minister of Public Services and Procurement Canada,
PSPC, has the exclusive authority to acquire goods.
The Minister of PSPC
then delegates this authority to ministers
to make purchases for their respective organizations
according to specific contract values.
Through their organizational delegation instruments,
contracting authority is then delegated to positions
once certain conditions have been met.
Parliament grants authority
for procurement services to ministers
through their organization's enabling legislation.
Treasury Board limits ministerial authorities
through policies like its Contracting Policy
and Common Services Policy.
Contracting authority for services
can also be delegated to positions
through the organizational delegation instrument
and can be exercised
once certain conditions have been met.
To know what and how much you can authorize,
consult your own signed delegation card
and your organization's delegation chart.
Again, the format of these documents will differ
depending on where you work.
(light music)
Take what you've learned into real life.
Your organization will have its own ways of doing things.
Take a time out from the course to consult your budgets
and your organization's financial signing authority chart.
What are your department's procurement spending limits?
Do you need to consult
Public Services and Procurement Canada?
Does your department have its own set of procurement rules,
such as the Department of National Defense
or the Department of Justice?
(light music)
Now that you know how to verify your budget,
distinguish between financial and procurement authorities,
and consult your financial delegation charts,
let's see what you remember by taking this short quiz.
(light music)